README.md, before:

# HyprGlide iOS App

An iOS game built with SwiftUI and SpriteKit for iOS 16+.

## Project Structure

```
HyprGlide/
├── HyprGlide/
│   ├── HyprGlideApp.swift          # App entry point (@main)
│   ├── ContentView.swift            # Root view combining SpriteKit + SwiftUI
│   ├── GameScene.swift              # SpriteKit game scene with update loop
│   ├── GameSceneMultiplayer.swift   # Multiplayer extensions for GameScene
│   ├── GameState.swift              # Observable game state model
│   ├── HUDView.swift                # SwiftUI overlay for score and controls
│   ├── GameCenterManager.swift      # Game Center auth and leaderboards
│   ├── MultiplayerManager.swift     # Realtime match handling
│   ├── MultiplayerModels.swift      # Multiplayer data models
│   ├── ArenaRandomizer.swift        # Deterministic RNG for shared arena
│   ├── MultiplayerStatusView.swift  # In-game player status HUD
│   ├── MultiplayerGameOverView.swift # Post-match results overlay
│   ├── FriendsLeaderboardView.swift # Friends-only high scores
│   └── Assets.xcassets/             # Asset catalog
└── HyprGlide.xcodeproj/            # Xcode project file
```

## Requirements

- **Xcode**: 14.0 or later
- **iOS Deployment Target**: 16.0 or later
- **Swift Version**: 5.0+
- **Game Center**: Required for multiplayer and friends leaderboards

## Features

- **Endless Arcade Action**: Dodge obstacles in a high-speed, neon-soaked tunnel.
- **Progressive Difficulty**: The game gets faster and more intense the longer you survive.
- **Dynamic Obstacles**: Navigate through a variety of obstacle patterns, including wide slow barriers and narrow fast projectiles.
- **Power-Ups**: Collect power-ups including Slow Motion, Invincibility, and Attack Mode.
- **Scoring System**: Earn points for survival time and "Near Miss" bonuses for risky maneuvers.
- **Themes**: Choose from multiple visual themes (Neon Blue, Neon Purple, Synthwave).
- **Haptic Feedback**: Immersive tactile feedback for collisions and interactions.
- **Game Center Multiplayer**: Compete in real-time matches with 2–4 players in a shared arena.
- **Friends Leaderboard**: Compare high scores with your Game Center friends.

## Controls

HyprGlide supports two control schemes:

1. **Tilt Control (Default)**:
   - Tilt your device left or right to steer the player.
   - Adjust sensitivity in Settings.
   - *Requires "Motion Usage" permission.*

2. **Touch Control**:
   - Drag your finger anywhere on the screen to move the player horizontally.
   - Touch control overrides tilt when active.

## Settings

Access the settings menu from the main screen or pause menu to configure:

- **Controls**: Toggle Tilt Control on/off and adjust Tilt Sensitivity.
- **Difficulty**: Choose between "Normal" and "Fast" difficulty ramps.
- **Audio**: Adjust Music and Sound Effects volume independently.
- **Visuals**: Switch between color themes (Neon Blue, Neon Purple, Synthwave).

## Multiplayer

HyprGlide supports real-time **Game Center multiplayer** with a **shared arena**—all players see the same obstacles and power-ups.

### Starting a Match

1. From the start menu, tap **MULTIPLAYER**.
2. Game Center matchmaking will find 2–4 players.
3. Once matched, all players enter the same arena with a synchronized start.

> **Note:** Game Center must be enabled on your device and you must be signed in. If Game Center is unavailable, the MULTIPLAYER button will be disabled or show a friendly message.

### Match Rules

- The match **ends when only one player remains alive**.
- The **winner is the player with the highest final score**, not necessarily the last survivor.
- Survival alone isn't enough—rack up points through dodging and near-miss bonuses to claim victory.

### Power-Up Behavior: Single-Player vs Multiplayer

Power-ups work differently depending on game mode:

#### Slow-Motion

| Mode | Behavior |
|------|----------|
| **Single-Player** | Slows down time for everything, giving the player breathing room. |
| **Multiplayer** | The **collector** keeps normal movement speed while **all other players are slowed** for the effect duration. This creates a strategic advantage for the collector. |

- **Stacking**: In multiplayer, slow-motion can stack (extending duration), but is capped to keep gameplay fair.

#### Other Power-Ups (Invincibility, Attack Mode)

| Aspect | Single-Player | Multiplayer |
|--------|---------------|-------------|
| **Spawning** | Only one power-up spawns at a time; new ones wait until the current effect ends. | Power-ups can spawn even while other effects are active. |
| **Stacking** | Not applicable. | Effects can stack, but a global cap (default: 2 simultaneous active power-ups) prevents chaos. |
| **Collection** | Collected by the player on contact. | **First touch wins**—only one player can collect a specific power-up. Once collected, it disappears for everyone else immediately. |

### Friends Leaderboard

Compare your best scores with Game Center friends:

1. From the start menu, tap **FRIENDS SCORES**.
2. If not authenticated, you'll be prompted to sign in to Game Center.
3. View a ranked list of friends' high scores.

### Game Center Configuration

For multiplayer and leaderboards to function:

- **Device**: Game Center must be enabled and the user signed in.
- **Leaderboard ID**: The app uses the identifier `hyprglide.friends.highscore`. This must match your App Store Connect / Game Center configuration.
- **Entitlements**: The app must have the Game Center capability enabled in Xcode.

If Game Center is unavailable or authentication fails, the app gracefully falls back to single-player mode without crashes.

## Known Limitations

- **Landscape Mode**: Not supported in v1. The app requires full-screen portrait mode.
- **iPad Support**: Runs in portrait compatibility mode.

## Building the Project

### From Xcode
1. Open `HyprGlide.xcodeproj` in Xcode.
2. Select an iOS Simulator or device.
3. Press `Cmd + R` to build and run.

### From Command Line
```bash
xcodebuild -project HyprGlide.xcodeproj \
  -scheme HyprGlide \
  -sdk iphonesimulator \
  -destination 'generic/platform=iOS Simulator' \
  build
```

## License

Created for HyprGlide game development.

Commit message:

Enhance visual accessibility options by adding a toggle for neon glow effects in settings. Updated GameScene and ObstacleNode to respect the glow preference, ensuring improved gameplay experience for users sensitive to bright visuals. Adjusted multiplayer state updates to reflect changes in glow settings.

README.md, after:

# HyprGlide iOS App

An iOS game built with SwiftUI and SpriteKit for iOS 16+.

## Project Structure

```
HyprGlide/
├── HyprGlide/
│   ├── HyprGlideApp.swift          # App entry point (@main)
│   ├── ContentView.swift            # Root view combining SpriteKit + SwiftUI
│   ├── GameScene.swift              # SpriteKit game scene with update loop
│   ├── GameSceneMultiplayer.swift   # Multiplayer extensions for GameScene
│   ├── GameState.swift              # Observable game state model
│   ├── HUDView.swift                # SwiftUI overlay for score and controls
│   ├── GameCenterManager.swift      # Game Center auth and leaderboards
│   ├── MultiplayerManager.swift     # Realtime match handling
│   ├── MultiplayerModels.swift      # Multiplayer data models
│   ├── ArenaRandomizer.swift        # Deterministic RNG for shared arena
│   ├── MultiplayerStatusView.swift  # In-game player status HUD
│   ├── MultiplayerGameOverView.swift # Post-match results overlay
│   ├── FriendsLeaderboardView.swift # Friends-only high scores
│   └── Assets.xcassets/             # Asset catalog
└── HyprGlide.xcodeproj/            # Xcode project file
```

## Requirements

- **Xcode**: 14.0 or later
- **iOS Deployment Target**: 16.0 or later
- **Swift Version**: 5.0+
- **Game Center**: Required for multiplayer and friends leaderboards

## Features

- **Endless Arcade Action**: Dodge obstacles in a high-speed, neon-soaked tunnel.
- **Progressive Difficulty**: The game gets faster and more intense the longer you survive.
- **Dynamic Obstacles**: Navigate through a variety of obstacle patterns, including wide slow barriers and narrow fast projectiles.
- **Power-Ups**: Collect power-ups including Slow Motion, Invincibility, and Attack Mode.
- **Scoring System**: Earn points for survival time and "Near Miss" bonuses for risky maneuvers.
- **Themes**: Choose from multiple visual themes (Neon Blue, Neon Purple, Synthwave).
- **Haptic Feedback**: Immersive tactile feedback for collisions and interactions.
- **Game Center Multiplayer**: Compete in real-time matches with 2–4 players in a shared arena.
- **Friends Leaderboard**: Compare high scores with your Game Center friends.

## Controls

HyprGlide supports two control schemes:

1. **Tilt Control (Default)**:
   - Tilt your device left or right to steer the player.
   - Adjust sensitivity in Settings.
   - *Requires "Motion Usage" permission.*

2. **Touch Control**:
   - Drag your finger anywhere on the screen to move the player horizontally.
   - Touch control overrides tilt when active.

## Settings

Access the settings menu from the main screen or pause menu to configure:

- **Controls**: Toggle Tilt Control on/off and adjust Tilt Sensitivity.
- **Difficulty**: Choose between "Normal" and "Fast" difficulty ramps.
- **Audio**: Adjust Music and Sound Effects volume independently.
- **Visuals**: Switch between color themes (Neon Blue, Neon Purple, Synthwave) and disable the neon glow on the player icon and falling obstacles if it causes eye strain.

## Multiplayer

HyprGlide supports real-time **Game Center multiplayer** with a **shared arena**—all players see the same obstacles and power-ups.

### Starting a Match

1. From the start menu, tap **MULTIPLAYER**.
2. Game Center matchmaking will find 2–4 players.
3. Once matched, all players enter the same arena with a synchronized start.

> **Note:** Game Center must be enabled on your device and you must be signed in. If Game Center is unavailable, the MULTIPLAYER button will be disabled or show a friendly message.

### Match Rules

- The match **ends when only one player remains alive**.
- The **winner is the player with the highest final score**, not necessarily the last survivor.
- Survival alone isn't enough—rack up points through dodging and near-miss bonuses to claim victory.

### Power-Up Behavior: Single-Player vs Multiplayer

Power-ups work differently depending on game mode:

#### Slow-Motion

| Mode | Behavior |
|------|----------|
| **Single-Player** | Slows down time for everything, giving the player breathing room. |
| **Multiplayer** | The **collector** keeps normal movement speed while **all other players are slowed** for the effect duration. This creates a strategic advantage for the collector. |

- **Stacking**: In multiplayer, slow-motion can stack (extending duration), but is capped to keep gameplay fair.

#### Other Power-Ups (Invincibility, Attack Mode)

| Aspect | Single-Player | Multiplayer |
|--------|---------------|-------------|
| **Spawning** | Only one power-up spawns at a time; new ones wait until the current effect ends. | Power-ups can spawn even while other effects are active. |
| **Stacking** | Not applicable. | Effects can stack, but a global cap (default: 2 simultaneous active power-ups) prevents chaos. |
| **Collection** | Collected by the player on contact. | **First touch wins**—only one player can collect a specific power-up. Once collected, it disappears for everyone else immediately. |

### Friends Leaderboard

Compare your best scores with Game Center friends:

1. From the start menu, tap **FRIENDS SCORES**.
2. If not authenticated, you'll be prompted to sign in to Game Center.
3. View a ranked list of friends' high scores.

### Game Center Configuration

For multiplayer and leaderboards to function:

- **Device**: Game Center must be enabled and the user signed in.
- **Leaderboard ID**: The app uses the identifier `hyprglide.friends.highscore`. This must match your App Store Connect / Game Center configuration.
- **Entitlements**: The app must have the Game Center capability enabled in Xcode.

If Game Center is unavailable or authentication fails, the app gracefully falls back to single-player mode without crashes.

## Known Limitations

- **Landscape Mode**: Not supported in v1. The app requires full-screen portrait mode.
- **iPad Support**: Runs in portrait compatibility mode.

## Building the Project

### From Xcode
1. Open `HyprGlide.xcodeproj` in Xcode.
2. Select an iOS Simulator or device.
3. Press `Cmd + R` to build and run.

### From Command Line
```bash
xcodebuild -project HyprGlide.xcodeproj \
  -scheme HyprGlide \
  -sdk iphonesimulator \
  -destination 'generic/platform=iOS Simulator' \
  build
```

## License

Created for HyprGlide game development.
